Hello, everyone.
Welcome back.
In this video, I will create a default project template that we can then use to create new projects
from.
This makes us so much more productive and a lot less chances for errors as well.
So we're going to create the project, save it as a template.
Then when we create new projects, we'll use that template as the base.
So let's get started.
You notice here that I've got the previous workspace that I was working on in the installation videos,
so let me just create a brand new workspace.
I'll go through the flow again just so that you can see what it's like one more time.
The more you see it, the easier it becomes.
So I'm going to click right here new, create a new workspace.
I'm going to select C plus plus workspace and click okay.
Then I'm going to put it right inside my users folder Workspaces folder.
I'm going to call this one Workspace two.
Again, you can name that anything you like.
Make sure create the workspace under a separate directory is checked.
I'll click.
Okay, Perfect.
So now you can see our workspace has been created.
Now I can right click on the workspace and create a new project.
We can name this project again, whatever we like, so I'll just call it Project one.
Make sure that create the project in its own folder is checked.
The category is console type is simple executable g plus plus the compiler is mingw W on Linux and Mac
you'll choose GCC for the compiler.
The debugger is the gdb debugger on Mac, you will choose lldb vs code.
And then we want to select the code light makefile generator as the build system.
So I'll select and click okay.
And that's going to create my project.
As you can see in the workspace here with the source folder and the default main.cpp which we are going
to remove and write our own.
So let's do that real quick.
Pound include IO stream just like we did before using I'll put a space here using namespace standard,
then we'll create our main function right here.
We'll say C out and what I'm going to do here is I'm going to display default template.
End line again.
End.
Not in one and we'll return zero.
That's it.
Notice that this is red, so we need to save our project.
I'm going to press control s on windows or command S on Mac.
And we've got just what we had before.
Now, before we build this, let's set up our project.
So I'm going to select Project one and click on that wrench.
In the general tab.
I want to go to the working directory right here.
Delete that and replace it with Project Path, just like we did before.
Again, uppercase P for project and path.
I'll press tab and it'll light up dark like that.
You don't have to change anything else.
In fact, don't touch anything else.
It's just like it's supposed to be.
We'll click on compiler now over here on the left, go to my compiler options and click those three
dots in the button and I'm going to select Enable C plus plus 17 features right there, which is the
stood C plus plus 17.
I'll click okay.
Then I can come over to my linker and if you like, you can put a dash static in the linker.
Options again, dash static.
No spaces in there.
Mac users do not do this.
Leave that blank.
Otherwise you're going to get linker errors.
So you can do this for Windows and for Linux.
But Mac users.
Leave it blank.
That's it.
I'll apply.
I'll press.
Okay.
Now let's make sure that we can build.
So we're going to come up here to build Rebuild project.
We've got a clean build, no errors.
Let's run it to make sure we can run it.
And it should display default template.
It does indeed.
So we've got a good build.
We've got a good project.
Now what we can do is we can save this project as a template and we can use it later to create new projects
from it without having to do all this setting stuff again.
So let's do that.
Let's right click on the project one and we'll come down here to where it says Save as template.
Okay, let me do that one more time.
Right click on Project one, Save as template.
The project name.
I'm just going to call this default project.
You can call this anything you like.
The project category.
This says, Where am I going to store this?
I'm going to store it in a category called User templates.
It doesn't really matter where you put it as long as you remember where you put it.
So user templates works for me and the description again can be anything.
I'm just going to say my default project.
There we go.
And I'm going to press.
Okay.
Done.
Now what we can do is we can create new projects from that template.
So let's do that.
I'll click on the workspace.
I'll right click new project.
The project's name Could be anything.
I'll just say Project two again.
Remember, no spaces, no special characters, no international characters anywhere.
The category now what we'll do is we'll pick user templates and for type we'll pick default project,
which is what we just created.
Double check that you've got MinGW or GCC on Linux and Mac and the GNU debugger or the Lldb vs code
on Mac.
They should be populated from the template.
We've got code like makefile generator, so you can just give it a once over and make sure everything
looks good and I'll press.
Okay.
Now you can see that project two has been created.
However, Project one is still the active project so we can make project two, the active project by
just double clicking on it.
And now Project two, you can see it's italicized and bold.
So let me close this up here and let's open up our project Two's main.cpp.
Notice I got the default template code which I wrote earlier.
If I select Project two and I click the wrench, you can see that in the general.
It did not keep the project path.
Unfortunately, this is a bug that hopefully will be fixed soon.
So in the meantime we'll just have to type project path just like that.
But the compiler option did take.
You can see this did equal C plus plus 17 and the linker option, you can see the static right here.
So unfortunately, we still have to come in here and type project path, but it's a little bit less
work than we had to do before.
Apply.
Okay.
And we're good to go now.
We can come over here to project to build it.
And you can see the C plus plus 17 over here.
You can see the static being used over here.
So all this is good and we can build and run.
And I'll execute it.
And it should say default template, just like we did before.
We can obviously change this and I'm going to say hello from project to.
I'll save that and I can build and run again.
There's our build.
It's a clean build.
Always be sure that you don't have any errors here before you run.
I'll execute.
And hello from Project two.
So there you go.
This makes life a little bit easier.
Unfortunately, we still have to set that project path right here for the general options, but it's
a lot less than we had to do before, and I think we're good to go here.
So you can use this technique.
So that finishes up the configuration of the default template.
I'll see you in the next videos and we'll start coding.